Okay, so let's cover some options for
scatter plotting in plot_ly.
And it will do this just because scatter
plots are such an obviously common thing
you might want to do.
So here is one thing you can change,
the color of the points.
Color is as.factor(cyl).
So on the mtcars dataset.
So we come down here head(mtcars) and
show you.
So cylinder is, where is it?
Cylinder is right there,
it's I think > table(mtcars$cyl).
Let's see yeah, so 4 6 and
8 so is displaying the number
of cylinders of the car,
obviously it should have an impact on
miles per gallon, which is our y variable.
So we might want to display
that as another dimension
because it's effectively categorical,
right?
It's just the three values.
We could do it as color, okay?
Now it's not by default,
a factor variable, it's numeric.
So we are going to convert it to a factor
variable by as.factor cylinder, and
now let's run it, and then you can just
see now the colors represent cylinder and
up here is legend,
by default it says 8, 6, and 4.
OK.
Now let's try something that's
continuous to display the color.
So in this case if you get displacement,
so heading back down here.
If you look at the mtcars
dataset the displacement
is kind of a continuous variable, right?
So if we run that,
plot_ly is smart enough to know
that the color is a continuous variable so
it treats it as another dimension,
continuous dimension using
a continuous color gradient.
And then it displays,
very nicely displays the key to
the gradient here on the side, okay?
So that's another way you can use color.
Let's change the size of the points.
I think when we look at this plot,
the points to me are very small.
And then as you saw maybe from the last
lecture when I outputted it to an HTML
file, the points were almost invisible.
So let's change the size.
Now, in this case the size we're
going to do is horsepower.
Okay?
So, horsepower is a continuous variable so
the size will be every point is just
going to have a different horsepower.
Okay, I'm sorry, every point is
going to have a different size.
Okay?
So, here the cylinder is the color, right?
And horsepower is the size.
So another interesting way.
You run out of dimensions of
course in a 2D scatter plot so
the only real dimensions
you have are the two
displayed dimensions color, size of the
points and then the plotting point it self
are the different kinds of
dimensions you can display.
So here it’s nice that we're showing
four dimensions miles per gallon,
weight, cylinders and
horsepower all in the same plot.
Okay, now.
Now, next I would like to just
briefly show a 3D scatterplot.
Now, I'm going to run the code here and
show you the plot and
then we'll describe what it's doing okay.
Of course this is another way you can
add a dimension to a scatter plot.
So what it's doing here is
it's using web GL which is
a web based translation of
the open GL graphics library.
Okay.
And it's a way that
you can have interactive 3D
graphics embedded in webpages.
So again this'll all just display and
be interactive like this when you
output it as a webpage as well.
So here we have three variables,
temperature, pressure and dtime, and
in this case we create
a very fictitious data set.
So temperature was just
100 random normals,
pressure was just 100 random normals and
dtime was just the numbers from 1 to 100.
So, there's a hundred data points,
they have three different values, okay and
this just shows you plot_ly,
same command, okay.
Now we just specify three variables,
x, y, and z, so super easy.
type = "scatter3d" okay.
mode = "markers".
And this, the color = temp,
just like before puts a color gradient.
On the points and then,
puts the actual key to the gradient
on the side of the plot.
Okay.
So,
that's all that we had to do to get
this nice interactive 3D scatter plot.
Okay.
So, your Homework now.
So I feel like we've covered enough
of scatter plots to get you started
on scatter plotting in plot_ly.
You could of course, look at the further
options that you can try and play around
with, but so for homework what I'd like
you to do is create a variety of different
2D scatter plots changing the plotting
attributes, plotting other dimensions
using color, plotting other dimensions
using different plotting points and so on.
And then try to do the same thing for
a 3D scatter plot and
just again, output it a a web page so
you know how to look at it, you know how
to work with these things as web pages.
And if you want, publish them to rpubs or
something like that so
you have a hosting,
a way to host it publicly.
Okay, so try that out and then next
we'll just go over some different,
some even I think cooler
applications of plot_ly